#Example in ubuntu linux

= Deployment=

This guide will help you deploy angelbot

= Install depend  package or software =
   * sudo apt-get install python-setuptools
   * sudo apt-get install build-essential
   * sudo easy_install pyopenssl  or  sudo apt-get install python-pyopenssl
   * sudo apt-get install python-twisted-conch
   * sudo easy_install pycrypto
   * sudo apt-get install libmysqlclient-dev
   * sudo easy_install MySQL-python
   * sudo apt-get install python-mysqldb
   * sudo apt-get install rrdtool
   * sudo apt-get install python-rrdtool
   * sudo apt-get install OpenSSL-dev
   * sudo apt-get install python-django
=Get Code=
   * svn checkout http://angelbot.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ angelbot
=Configuration=
   * Edit file angelbot/web/AngelWeb/settings.py like:
      * 12.DATABASE_ENGINE = 'mysql'----#  'postgresql', 'mysql', 'sqlite3' or 'oracle'.
      * 13.DATABASE_NAME = 'angeldb'----# Or path to database file if using sqlite3.
      * 14.DATABASE_USER = 'root'----# Not used with sqlite3.
      * 15.DATABASE_PASSWORD = '' ----# Not used with sqlite3.
      * 16.DATABASE_HOST = ''-----# Set to empty string for localhost. Not used with sqlite3.
      * 17.DATABASE_PORT = ''----# Set to empty string for default. Not used with sqlite3.

   * Specify your rrd path:
      * 85.RRD_PATH = '/Users/Wuvist/source/angelbot/rrds/'
=Run Angelbot=
   * use angelbot/web/AngelWeb/manage.py syncdb   #auto create tables;in halfway, it will ask you enter to create superadmin username&password,please enter and remember it.
   * use angelbot/web/AngelWeb/manage.py runserver 127.0.0.1:8000   #browser enter http://127.0.0.1:8000/       you will see one light blue angelbot homepage, congratulation ! you done it! of course you can use your superadmin username&password login.
=Add Server=
   * Using http://angelbot/admin portal to add a new server definition.
   * Only the server name is critical here. server_type is for reference. IP, username, password fields are actually dummy, could input anything. Actual server login credential are currently hardcoded in bot's hosts.py file.
=Add RRD=
   * Using http://angelbot/admin portal to add a new rrd. RRD defines the data store for recording data.
   * RRD name must be unique, it's the actual filename for RRD file created
   * setting field is actually the supplementing parameter passed to rrdtool when creating rrd file, for single number, input: --step 60 DS:online:GAUGE:60:0:U RRA:LAST:0.5:1:525600
   * --step 60: Indicate this data need to be updated every 60 seconds. DS & RRA defines the data store for 1 year. 525600 = 60 24 365
   * Please refers to rrdtool documents for details: http://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdcreate.en.html
   * Once the rrd definition is created, visit http://angelbot/rrd/
   * Click create to create actual rrd file or review its info.
=Add Widget=
   * Widget defines the how should Angel present data from a defined RRD.
   * Again, widgets are created in admin portal.
   * Server & Category are optional fields. Rrd and Graph def are critical here.
   * A sample graph widget showing single line will be: DEF:online={rrd}:online:LAST LINE:online#ff8882:Online
   * Above definition actually follows rrdtool's graph parameter (http://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdgraph.en.html)
   * {rrd} will be replaced with actual rrd file name.
=Updating Data=
   * Once a Rrd file & widget are defined, external could start sending data to bot periodically.
   * http://angel:8080/rrd?rrd={RRD Name}&ds={Dummy ds Name}&v={Value}
   * Above API is a simple wrapper for rrdupdate cmd: http://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdupdate.en.html
   * Notes:
      * API will round current time to nearest minute.
      * DS has multiple value could be updated using multiple v parameter like:
         * http://angel:8080/rrd?rrd={RRD Name}&ds={Dummy ds Name}&v={Value1}&v={Value2}&v={Value3}