Title: guide
=Deploy=
=====2011/03/28 - 2011/04/03=====
   *svn checkout codes:
svn checkout http://angelbot.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
   
Adding new server & sample widget

This guide shows how to add a new server and a widget taking single gauge value for monitor into angelbot.

= Add Server =
Using http://angelbot/admin portal to add a new server definition.

 :!: Only the server name is critical here.
     server_type is for reference.
     IP, username, password fields are actually dummy, could input anything.

     Actual server login credential are currently hardcoded in bot's hosts.py file.

= Add RRD =
Using http://angelbot/admin portal to add a new rrd. RRD defines the data store for recording data.

RRD name must be unique, it's the actual filename for RRD file created.

setting field is actually the supplementing parameter passed to rrdtool when creating rrd file, for single number, input:
--step 60
DS:online:GAUGE:60:0:U
RRA:LAST:0.5:1:525600

--step 60: Indicate this data need to be updated every 60 seconds.
DS & RRA defines the data store for 1 year. 525600 = 60 * 24 * 365

Please refers to rrdtool documents for details: http://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdcreate.en.html

Once the rrd definition is created, visit http://angelbot/rrd/

Click **create** to create actual rrd file or review its info.

= Add Widget =
Widget defines the how should Angel present data from a defined RRD.

Again, widgets are created in admin portal.

Server & Category are optional fields. Rrd and Graph def are critical here.

A sample graph widget showing single line will be:
DEF:online={rrd}:online:LAST
LINE:online#ff8882:Online


Above definition actually follows rrdtool's graph parameter (http://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdgraph.en.html)

{rrd} will be replaced with actual rrd file name.

= Updating Data =
Once a Rrd file & widget are defined, external could start sending data to bot periodically.

http://angel:8080/rrd?rrd={RRD Name}&ds={Dummy ds Name}&v={Value}

Above API is a simple wrapper for rrdupdate cmd: http://oss.oetiker.ch/rrdtool/doc/rrdupdate.en.html

Notes:
  * API will round current time to nearest minute.
  * DS has multiple value could be updated using multiple v parameter like:
    * http://angel:8080/rrd?rrd={RRD Name}&ds={Dummy ds Name}&v={Value1}&v={Value2}&v={Value3}